Welcome back, everybody. Welcome to the Data Science Hangout-style Q & A. It's not a real
Data Science Hangout. We are here speaking with our amazing virtual talk panel speakers,
and I'm joined by my co-host today, Rachel Dempsey. Rachel, would you like to say hello?
Hey, everybody. I am actually in Atlanta this week, so I'm happy I get to be here for both
virtual and in-person, so if anyone happens to be in-person too and is joining from their
hotel room, come say hi to me later today at the reception too.
Awesome. Yeah, we all want to know how Rachel's Wi-Fi is doing at the hotel. Everyone's like,
it's great. So far, so good, but maybe I shouldn't have said that.
Okay. We will say no more about that. I forgot to introduce myself. My name is Libby Heron. I'm a
data community manager here at Posit. You probably know me from being the host of the Data Science
Hangout. I wanted to give a quick intro just in case anybody didn't join for the talks, but they
are joining now, and just in case you're going to be very confused, but we're hanging out with our
speakers for the talks. I would love to go around in the order that our speakers gave their talks
and just do a quick intro, your name, reminder of which talk you gave, and something you like to do
for fun. So, Ryszard, we'll start with you. Sure. Hi, everybody. I'm Ryszard Szymanski. I'm a staff
engineer at Epsilon, and my talk was about deployment strategies. I'm based in Warsaw, Poland,
and the question was what I like to do for fun, right? Yes. Okay. I enjoy reading and baking.
Reading and baking. Oh, me too. All right. I will go next over to Kennedy, since he was the first
speaker for Kennedy and John's talk. Kennedy, can you say who you are, what talk you gave,
and something you like to do for fun? Hello. I'm Kennedy. I'm from Nairobi. What is the second
question? What talk you gave? Oh, I gave the talk on ambiorics, and for fun, I like going to the
farm. Yeah. Interacting with animals and stuff. Yeah. Oh, that's awesome. Oh, I love that too.
We have a ranch in my family, so lots of animals as well. Next is our co-speaker for that talk,
John Kuna, if you want to introduce yourself. Thank you, Libby. Yes, I co-presented ambiorics
with Kennedy, and I am John. I'm based out of Switzerland. What I like to do for fun? Well,
honestly, not much else than that, open source, family otherwise. That's about it.
That's enough. It's a lot. Thank you, John. Let's go to Dylan. Dylan, can you introduce yourself,
what talk you gave, and something you like to do for fun? Yes. Hello, everyone. My name's Dylan
Piper. I gave the talk on LLMs. One thing I like to do for fun that's kind of unique is paragliding.
It's a pretty big European sport, but also in the United States as well. I like to fly and have fun
flying. That sounds incredible and terrifying and dangerous. Thank you, Dylan. Next, we have Gina.
Gina, would you like to introduce yourself? Yes. I'm Gina Reynolds. I gave the talk on
JuJuPilot 2. I'm calling in from Denver. Something I like to do for fun is flying kites,
so the safe version. The safe version of paragliding. That's awesome. Well, we have so
many questions in Slido. If you did not get to get your question in, Rachel put a link in the chat,
in the Discord chat, because reminder, again, I said this already for people who were here before,
but if you weren't, we are asking questions in Slido for all of our speakers, and we're doing
all of our chatting in the Discord server. The Zoom chat will be disabled. Yes, we are aware
that it's disabled. Honestly, asking, chatting in Discord is way more fun, because this chat here in
Zoom wouldn't let us use any emojis or GIFs at all. We are going to head over to the Slido and
find some questions for our guests now. Libby, I forgot to introduce myself the way that you set
it up. Hi, everybody. I'm Rachel Dempsey. I lead customer marketing at Posit, and so I mentioned
I'm here in Atlanta right now for the conference, but I'm usually in Boston, so if you're in Boston,
would love to catch up with you there, too. What do I like to do for fun? It's usually around
finding live music somewhere. Ooh, nice. Yeah, Rachel plays guitar. We have lots of musicians
in our data science Hangout community. Okay, I wanted to start with a question for Rich, because
you gave your talk first, which meant I had to scroll to find it. Not all of these questions
have the names on them, so forgive us if you did not put the name for who the question is for. It
might take us a while to figure out who it's for. The question is, let's see, it's from Nathan,
and it says, I love the blue-green deployment approach, but how would you recommend doing it
with self-hosted apps without inadvertently creating published URLs like my-blue?
Okay, that depends on what you mean by self-hosted. If that's, I know, a virtual
machine that you're hosting somewhere in the cloud, you can think of, like, one, check if
your provider doesn't give docs on blue-green deployments on that particular service,
or if you're really doing a lot of things manually, you can look into setting up your
own load balancer and point to your load balancer and then do the switching on the load balancer level.
I wish that I knew anything about load balancing. I feel like that's above my shiny pay grade.
That's a whole big topic. Nathan, maybe you can find Rich on Discord as well. We are all
in this virtual day events channel together and get a little bit more details later.
Thank you, Nathan, for the question. Do you want to just go back and forth here?
Yes, that would be great. It would be great if we could find a question for Kennedy and John.
Absolutely. There's a question that's been upvoted quite a bit here for Kennedy,
and it was, can someone build a front-end using shiny components and use it with an,
I was practicing saying the name, Amburix back-end?
So, can someone build a front-end using shiny components and use it with an Amburix back-end?
Well, yes, you can use, say, like shiny components, for example, action buttons,
even BS Lib components, the dropdowns and whatnot, they'll still work. But then,
that would kind of beat the purpose because it's like you have this framework here and then now
you're bringing in a whole new framework just so that you can use the action buttons. Also,
it doesn't make a lot of sense to bring in the whole framework because the way shiny works is
they are what? They are supposed to be reactive. So, using it with Amburix, you want to get
the full power of shiny. So, I'm not sure if you'd want to go that route, but yeah, you can.
Actually, you can as well use HTML widgets. So, currently, we have support for it, just static
HTML widgets. They just work fine. So, in most cases, you just go for like a front-end framework.
Yeah. Thank you. Awesome. Thank you. Thank you, anonymous question asker, for the question.
All right. I have one for Dylan here that I will highlight that says,
can an LLM be trusted to determine its own certainty score? How reliable has that been?
Yeah, this is a great question. So, I saw some research showing that LLMs tend to be over
confident, and I'm not surprised. So, I think two things. You can ask it for its level of
certainty, and I think it's a good thing to do, and it's also good to frame it in uncertainty.
Tell it, hey, exercise caution. How uncertain are you about this task?
Because if you put it in how certain you are, it's going to be a little bit more biased. Be like,
yeah, I'm doing a good job. So, you'll get more of a signal if you're like, hey,
tell me if you're uncertain, if this task is not easy. So, it's not a perfect signal, right? Like,
we can correlate the uncertainty scores with actual correct classifications, and it's not
going to be a perfect correlation, but it is a significant signal, and so you can use it as a
way to review the responses and start to get an idea of where to look, especially if you have a
huge data set. If you look at those uncertain responses, you're going to start finding. It's
going to help filter through to actually get good ones to review. So, yeah.
The challenges are many. Thank you, Dylan.
Thank you. I see a question for Gina. I'm going to go repost into the Discord.
But it was, is there any appetite for interactivity in ggplot2? And if there are any
extensions that do this, I may just be unfamiliar. They said, I'm a huge fan of High Charter and
Plotly for the interactive elements, and it'd be great to see options using ggplot.
Yeah. So, one of the presenters that we want to have is David Goyles, and we've been in touch
with him. I think that that is going to be on our schedule soon, is the GG-IRAF. I don't really,
some of the packages are hard to pronounce. I can put a link to his, this package,
and that allows for, I think, some interactivity with not too much difficulty.
Yes, I say GG-IRAF as well. I know, I know. I think it's G-Giraffe. There's definitely a
difference. Yes, it is. But I started saying GG-IRAF a long time ago, and I don't think I can
break that habit. Actually, on the topic of packages, I was curious, what is everybody's
favorite package or hex sticker? Because this is my new favorite with these things.
The Stacks. Stacks are always good. If anybody doesn't know the Stacks lore, there's a new Stacks
every year, a new Stacks sticker with different fruit on it. Does anybody want to go around here
with their favorite hex stickers? Gina, what's yours while we're talking to you?
Or a favorite. It doesn't have to be the favorite. It's ggplot, too.
ggplot, too. Of course. That's cheating. Ruz, how about you? Do you have a favorite?
Yeah, I'm trying. I love the ones that are holographic, and I think ddplyr has one,
and it also has the seal on it. So, I don't know, some holographic one, my favorite.
I have some of the holographic Apsalon ones as well, and they are so dang pretty. All the
Apsalon ones are gorgeous. Kennedy, how about you? Do you have a favorite hex?
Nope. Not gonna lie. No. No favorite. John?
Yeah, I've got one. I've done a few myself for obscure packages no one's ever heard of,
but the one from Packagedown, the box-like thingy is pretty nice. It's pretty nice.
I agree. It's like a cardboard box, right?
Indeed. That's what I remember at least. I think you're right. I have it behind me.
I really like it as well. And Dylan, how about you?
So, I guess since it's relevant to my talk, I do really like Elmer, and I also like Simon's
package vitals. They've been trying to create some art where they're together,
where this little bear with a stethoscope is trying to find the bear, or the elephant.
And I also really like the one package that I made called Red Quack, and it's a play on
DuckDB and Redcap, and it has a little bill on set. I'll put it in the chat.
So, shameless self-plug there.
Super cute. I love ducks. Special Libby fact. Ducks are just my favorite. Everyone has a stuffed
animal when they grew up. Mine was a duck. My favorite, I think, is the old school McGritter
hype sticker, like with the sassy nest pile and peep, like the little, yeah. That one's getting
more rare these days. Okay. Let's move on and have another question, because we have one for
Richard, and that is, reconfiguring the vanity URL to switch from blue to green.
Are there any challenges to user sessions that could impact the end user experience?
So, that's a good question. From my tests, users didn't seem to be disrupted. They might be
connected to the previous version, but the thing that you do need to be careful about is if you
reconfigure environment variables, because if you do it, then, for example, in the UI, you would
get a warning that, hey, just be aware that if you change an environment variable, all processes
will be terminated and started up again. So, yeah, that's the place where you should keep
that in mind. Okay. But at least you get a warning. Thank you. Thank you. And, John,
I have a question for you. Someone asked, anonymously, for someone who is used to
Shiny's reactivity, what kind of mindset shift do I have to use Amburex? What challenges might
I encounter with my assumptions? It's rather different. It's a good question.
It's very different, but I would argue that Amburex is rather easier in that sense.
So, at least, I build Shiny up almost for a living now, and one of the difficulties with
the reactivity, though it comes with plenty of convenience, is that you have to hold in
your mind constantly quite a few moving pieces and reactives. What happens in the back end,
how it reacts on the front end, et cetera. And with Amburex, it's basically a bit like,
how it works is a bit like Plumber. So, you just have to think of the user makes a request to your
server, and you just send a response, and you don't have to think a bit. There are no moving
pieces around and things to keep in mind, essentially. So, in that sense, it is much
easier, I would argue, at least. So, maybe less of a challenge and more of like,
this might feel a little bit easier in that way, because reactive programming is so
challenging in and of itself. It's hard to wrap your brain around, especially when your apps get
really big. Thank you, John. I think so. Yes, I think so. I don't want to ramble
real quick. It's the problem. I mean, reactivity is great for what generally people call SPH,
single page applications. And we use plenty of them daily, I think. Things like Instagram or
Google Maps, when you think of it, these are all single page applications, and they are with a
reactive back end. It makes sense. But I think as soon as in China, you start having too many
types, too many tabs, sorry, and too many, I don't know, too much business logic, too many different
things moving on, and it becomes a bit too complicated. I think a traditional framework,
a bit like Plumber or MVRX, is better suited. Yeah, you've got lots and lots of pages.
All right, awesome. Thank you. I have got a question for Dylan. Dylan, are you ready?
It is, you mentioned frontier models. What models do you find work best for image versus text
classification? Which ones are not good? Okay, so I have only really used the vision models for
this kind of testing I did for this presentation, so I am not an expert. I think all of their vision
models are going to be pretty basic. You could even see we quickly ran into the limitations
with the vision model in this use case for the classification of the iris flowers, but I know
they all... It is practical to you, right? Yes. Just making sure that we all know the context. I did try it with
Anthropix, Claude model as well, ran into the same issue. I did try Gemini, but they all have vision
support at this point, so I would play around with it. Text models, I think they are kind of all
pretty good. I like OpenAI's GPT because it is cheaper and performs usually as good as Claude
with the structured data tasks, but of course I like Claude more for coding and some of it is kind
of like ethical foundations. You just kind of have to explore, and also you can classify with
different models. If you do not have... In the presentation, I showed examples where we had
the true classification to look at whether the LLM was giving us a correct response, and
you can actually use just different LLMs too to see if they perform differently on the task
and use that as a signal of why aren't these LLMs agreeing on my classification. Yeah.
Libby, I think someone was asking to see the mug that you were drinking out of.
Okay. I was going to wait. The awkward silence after saying thanks to Dylan.
I wanted to show you guys my cute mug that says I just want to be normal with a skewed
distribution on it, but I think that my screen might be mirrored. I can't tell. Can you read it?
I can read it. Yeah. It's super cute. It's one of my favorite stats mugs because I have many.
All right. Awesome. I see an anonymous question for Gina, and it was,
you mentioned feeling like an outsider to the ggplot extender community. What drew you to ggplot
in the first place? Did you use a lot of ggplot in your job at the time?
Yeah. In the first place, I went to a workshop that was on ggplot too, and I think that was
really foundational to show me how the pieces fit together and that things are so, like,
the orthogonality of the different components can be expressed that way. Yeah. I was using ggplot
too in my job and just saw, like, I would come to a point where I would be frustrated with what was
on offer in base ggplot too, and I saw other extensions. I think one of our first presenters
was the author of ggbump, and I think that with that, I realized, oh, this is just a ggplot too
user that's also at the edge of what they want to do easily with ggplot too, and they figured out
extension. And so seeing that experience, I was like, well, maybe I can get into that too.
Some of the cases were really basic. My point of entry was on this means question was, like,
I don't want to compute those means. Myself, I see ggplot too computing stuff all the time
like in making histograms and stuff, so I know you can do it, and let's just get into it and
figure that out. Thank you for the question. Yeah, I agree. I love it when I can just have ggplot
do something for me, and I don't have to, like, make another column and compute everything and
do pre-processing, so I love that too. All right. We have a question for Risharj. It is here. It is,
have you ever used blue versus green deployment for A-B testing a new feature?
I have not. I would use feature flags for that, and one thing to keep in mind is
if you want statistical significance, you might need a bigger sample size,
and if you have such a large user group, then first of all, congratulations.
And, but if you have a smaller user group, then what I, like, I wouldn't call it, like,
a full A-B test, but sort of, like, doing user testing with two different versions to get a sense
of what UI might be better, so I would get on a call with different users because the user group
was small enough where I could, like, talk to most of them and present some with one version
and others with another version, and that way sort of learn which option might be better,
and their feature flags and breaking down the option of, hey, if this person belongs to this
group or to this group, could be a way to do that. Yep, I love it. I don't know what feature
flux is. Is it a package? Is it software? I mean, there is a package called like that,
but it's also the general method that was also mentioned during the talk.
That was the same. Oh, okay. I must have missed it. That's one that I don't know about, so if
anybody has any more info about it, feel free to put it in the Discord chat so we can all talk
about it. So, for either Kennedy or John, there are a few people asking about how do you deploy
Amburix? Oh, good question.
Okay. And who unmuted first? It's Kennedy. It's Kennedy. Like the Jeopardy buzzer.
Yeah, so you have several options for how to deploy your Amburix application.
For someone just getting into deployment, the easiest is probably using Shinyapps.io. We
actually have documentation for all those methods that you can use. But obviously, the easiest
Shinyapps.io route, it works well with Amburix. You just have to set an environment variable,
and then that's it. Or rather, grab an environment variable. We have it well documented.
But Shinyapps.io is the easiest. The second easiest would be Shiny server. Yeah, you can
actually deploy. Just the same way you deploy Shiny applications is probably the same way you're
going to deploy Amburix applications. And in fact, it works well if Posit connects to a workbench,
and we're actually working on the documentations for those. Yeah, but for people who are more
familiar with servers, you can go for anything from AWS, DigitalOcean, GCP, all those options.
Yes. Awesome. And I was just trying to find at the same time the documentation you mentioned,
so if you get a chance and could share that in the Discord, that'd be great. Okay, sure, sure.
Thank you. Yay, thank you. Alrighty, we have a question for Dylan, if I can find it on my screen.
There it is. It was, what advice would you give someone who doesn't know where to start with LLMs
in R and they just want to get their feet wet? Yeah, that's a great question. I think just
start with Elmer. Like, just start up a chat. Start looking at how to programmatically chat.
So, you know, first you'll see that it's just like sort of like basic, you know, prompt and response.
And then you can start to see how then you could, you know, like paste in other text information
or provide like data to it programmatically and start thinking about those sorts of scenarios,
which then will get you into like, okay, well, I actually want that data to be structured.
Actually, I have like, you know, want to make multiple requests. I think one example is like,
you know, use the weather, like pull some weather data from a weather API and like have
the Elmer chat provide like this nice, you know, short couple sentence description about what the
weather's like at a certain location. So, just play with like simple examples like that and look
at the Elmer documentation. Awesome, thank you. I see people were talking about the elephant in
the Elmer package being so cute, too, to go look at that hex again. Question for Gina. Somebody had
asked, for someone who's mostly proficient in ggplot2 but new to creating packages, what's the
first step you'd recommend to get started? Are there certain extension packages that you consider
really good, like a good example to follow? Yeah, so I think the place to start is like
working on the extension itself and making sure that like that is sufficient motivation to
to get into packaging. But I have some of my own packages that would get you to like a minimal
package, too. So, I think a question that I ask myself this a lot is like, what can I do without?
So, I can provide maybe a link. I'm going to put the recipes in the chat as well
because I think that that's maybe a good place to start. Yeah, yeah. So, yeah, I think like
kind of a good sequence of events is work on the extension mechanism itself and see if
if, I don't know, come to the group maybe and and see if that doesn't already exist, you know,
ask in the discussion, see if it's worthwhile to package. Oh, I'll, thank you.
I was, I was curious if extensions is something that exists for a lot of package
packages, like I've heard that for ggplot2 and cordo, but is that with a lot of packages?
I think less so. ggplot lends itself to extending because of geoms, really. So, like you have this
this structure that's so well defined that you're able to add on to it and make those things do
other things. That's a good question. Does anybody know? Anybody in the chat, feel free to chime in
if you know of packages that extend other packages besides ggplot and besides cordo add-ins.
We'll think about it. Oh, yeah. So, it's called add-ins for cordo?
They're, I think they are called extensions. Okay. Sam Parmar has so many of them. Go check
his out if you haven't. He works at Pfizer and he's amazing. He's very prolific in the
cordo extension space. If you dream it up, he probably has tried to make it.
All right. I have a question for Richard. It is, okay, it says, not directly related, but do you
have any insights about handling HTTP authentication with apps hosted in PositConnect or authentication
with PositConnect in general? For example, apps that require calls to internal only APIs.
That was very long. I'm going to put that in the Discord for us.
Okay. So, in terms of what's available within PositConnect, so,
in terms of just authentication, you get some things out of the box.
That link I mentioned with the session object and getting the username in groups,
that's part of that. In terms of calling other internal APIs, yeah, I'm not 100% sure here,
but I think there was an update in PositConnect, because before you would get the
connect API key for the publisher. But I think, and yeah, fact check me on that, please, is
now there's an option where you could get the, like, an API key that would
present itself as the user accessing your app. So, you could sort of
forward it over to your internal IP that's also hosted on connect and that way
access it. But yeah, that one might need a fact check.
All right. No worries. Somebody will help us fact check in the chat.
Okay. Let's see. This one says, Kennedy, I've worked on huge and unwieldy Shiny apps as well
with so many tabs. Are there any other challenges besides, oops, it just jumped.
Sorry, that was me.
Okay. Besides needing API endpoints that Ambirox helped you solve,
did using it help you learn more JavaScript? And I know that's long, so I'll put it here in the
Discord as well.
That's a good one. Definitely, you can't use Ambirox and not have to learn JavaScript. So,
yes, I had to learn more JavaScript. The other thing it taught me, I think for me,
at that time, the multi pages and the APIs were the big things. That was like my immediate
problem. So, at that time, that was my, that was all my focus. Yeah.
I love it. And I wanted to pull John in while we are in the John and Kennedy zone. Because one of
the questions in Slido actually matches something that was just asked in Discord. And it says,
I think you mentioned plugins for Ambiorix. What plugins are there? What kinds of extra
things do they let you do with Ambiorix? That's a good question. Yes, I can pull that up.
We do have a series of plugins. So, they're essentially middleware. Most of them middle,
what we call middleware, which is something that you can discover when you, if you look up a bit
about Ambiorix and this type of framework. But essentially, you can customize the logger.
We have things that will, for instance, minify the HTML that you send back as a response,
so that you make it smaller, loads faster. You can use different engines if you want for
the rendering of your HTML. We have, they're not known in the R ecosystem, but elsewhere,
there are Jade and Pug, things like that. We have other things for security, CSRF tokens,
these sort of things that you can, basically, they work like plugins because you install it,
you just do library, and then use something, one function call, and it's just integrated
into your app. Okay, so it is a library call. It's not like a browser plugin or something.
No, not like that. Sorry. No. Cool. Awesome. Thanks for that.
Okay. We also have a load balancer, too.
You are talking about- True. We have a load balancer for that as well. Yeah.
Nice. Thank you. All right. Rachel's up. Sorry. Scrolling through. No, that's okay. I am, too.
We're all scrolling through your questions. Connor had asked a great question for
Richard. It is, can shiny feature flags be used as a security feature, or can users get to the
obscured UI element by inspecting the web page in the browser or editing the JS, which I'm assuming
is JavaScript? It could be part of the solution. So, as I mentioned, the feature flag is just a
fancy name for an if statement because feature flags doesn't provide you with, because I assume
you're asking about user access and that the user can only access a specific part of the app.
Then that needs to be handled, for example, by PositConnect. And in terms of if they will be
able to find things in the UI, here you need to, it depends how you write your shiny code.
Because if you, for example, in the server side, you can check if that user is the user
to whom you want to show your content and insert the UI or within the render UI statement, you can
check who they are and either render nothing or what they're supposed to see if they are a person
that can access that. So, part of the, could be part of the solution. And you need to structure
your code so it works the way you want it to. Nice, yeah. So, it could be a little bit of
data governance, maybe. People, you only get to see this table if you're this type of user and
you can't see it otherwise. And, you know, you can have different layers, like one part of the UI.
But, for example, if you show the data, you might have like data scoping, like an administrator
might want to see everything, but you might have some custom filtering logic. And in there,
the feature reflex could also be used, but yeah, you might as well write an if statement and check
the session object yourself. Right. Awesome, thank you. All right, let's head over to Dylan.
Dylan, Noor asked a question and I will put it in the chat as well. It was for the disease
classification that you had in your presentation. How unbalanced was the data between disease types?
Influenza-esque viruses have greater representation versus malaria, etc. Secondly, do you think that
impacted the performance? Yeah, this is a good question. This was just a test data set, so it's
not necessarily representing like the frequency of diseases in the real world. So, I think all
24 diseases had something like 200 data points for each. So, it was balanced, just an example
data set to test for machine learning models that are doing kind of natural language processing
algorithms. So, kind of a perfect fit for the LLM to also take its stab at, which it did not do very
good at. So, I would not use that, but it's good to know. Good to know, thank you. Gina, I see
a question, an insider question. Do you know if there'll be a ggplot3?
I've only heard that mentioned once. I don't know anything.
But the question I wanted to ask you is, what are some of the recurring themes around challenges
that ggplot extenders face? This person said, I've been thinking about making an extension package,
but I'm nervous. I think that because the like user API is sometimes so nice, then
we don't kind of know the building blocks beneath the surface. Like those aren't super exposed to
us. So, I think just like getting some exposure to those through resources like the easy recipes and
then the extension vignette and extension chapter is probably like a good starting point. So, you're
just going like one level down. Awesome, thank you.
Alrighty, we have a question from Umair. Hey, Umair, how's it going? It's for Kennedy. What
front-end frameworks do you recommend for our users who are new to Ambiorix?
Okay, that's a good one. So, most of our users will be coming from Shiny. So, definitely
for CSS frameworks, Bootstrap would be a really good starting point. You won't feel the difficulty,
like it will just be like using Shiny only that you have to build the action buttons and the text
inputs yourself. But it will feel more like a good starting point. So, I think that's a good
starting point. So, another container would be Tailwind CSS, which is really good.
As far as the CSS frameworks are concerned, Tailwind is really, really good. For JavaScript
frameworks, I personally go for HTMX. It's not a recent framework. It's been there for a while.
It's just that we've known it recently. But yeah, that's what I go for. It will feel a lot like
Shiny in that it's like saying, when the page loads, I want you to make this request. So,
same kind of way you use React, you use Reactives in Shiny, but now with HTMX. Yeah.
So, those are my recommendations. John? Yeah, sorry. It's because Shiny comes bundled with
the front end, essentially. That's why it's so easy to get started. But then you're tied with
Bootstrap. So, one of the advantages of MBRX is that you can choose whatever framework you want.
But the problem with asking this question to Kennedy is that he loves Bootstrap. So,
he uses Bootstrap anyways. But yeah, that's, I think, an advantage. And as Kennedy put it in
his slide, also an inconvenience you can think of. There's no just text input that will work out
of the box or action button that will work out of the box. There's a bit more work, but at least you
can make the application a tad more unique, I would argue. Yeah, that's true. I want to throw out my
favorite UI that you can use in Shiny, which is Fomantic, which is a port of the Semantic UI,
I think. All of these are JavaScript. But, Rish, do you, I mean, Appsilon has many of them,
right? Like Blueprint and some that I can't remember the name of. Blueprint, Shiny Fluent,
and Shiny Semantic. Yes, okay. So, Shiny Semantic, Shiny Fluent, and Blueprint. So,
other frameworks that you can use that make your app look different that are not the standard
bootstrap, just in case anybody wants to go investigate. I've had a lot of fun with Fomantic.
Thank you. Dylan, a question for you. Does it take a lot of iterating before you get a prompt
that will correctly identify things? How much of the analysis do you think is the prompt
figuring out part? I think it's a lot. I think iterating is really good, and you can see that
creating this presentation, I did a lot of iterating to find out what the limits of the
LLMs are. Like, you can see Simon doing that openly on his blog as well. I think what I'm
learning, though, is you can reduce the amount of iteration by starting small, like using simple
prompting that's really powerful, that's using, like, really trying to identify what you need.
A lot of times, the LLM just kind of overrides it with its own prompting and desires. So, really,
if you can focus in on, like, what are the edge cases that you need to handle, what are some of,
maybe, the tricky parts of the task you're asking to help kind of handhold, I think,
focus on that. So, look at where the limitations are, focus on the edge cases,
prompt around those, but don't try to tell it, like, you are Bob the Builder building this
website. Like, just get rid of that. Yeah.
Well, thank you.
I love that. Okay. Gina, I have a question here that says, what is your personal favorite
ggplot2 extension package, or just one that you like, or favorite creation story behind one?
It says, do most people say they make an extension package because they couldn't get
ggplot2 to do what they wanted? Like, since you've heard so many creation stories and motivation.
I mean, ggbump always comes to mind, just because I think the focus is so narrow. And,
yeah, that extender, he doesn't have, like, a huge library of extension stuff, but it is,
like, I always see people using it. It's, like, so useful for the world. So, it's, like, kind of
an inspiring reference. I mean, I just think, yeah, all the stories are great. I feel like
every meeting, I'm like, this is my favorite meeting so far.
All my children are my favorite. Yeah. Mike just put ggbump into the chat. And I will say,
I co-hosted VisBuzz in June. And one of the plots that had to be recreated in VisBuzz was a bump
chart. And everybody who was not using R had a hard time, because ggbump does a really unique
thing. Like, bump charts are not a standard thing that you can make. There was just a package that
came out, I think it might have been from Joseph Barbier. I'm not sure that does bump charts in
Python, but not a lot of other packages do that. It's very unique and awesome.
Now, I'm going to look at what bump charts mean. Thank you for sharing.
Bump charts are amazing. I agree. Okay. Let's head.
John, there was a question for you that was, why ExpressJS? Could Amberix be adapted to use other
frameworks? Curious what you liked about it.
I try and be as clear as I can, but that seems to be a misunderstanding that comes up very often.
It's not built on ExpressJS. The syntax is inspired by it. And if you take the Hello World,
which I think show it on the website. If you take the Hello World for Amberix,
and the Hello World for ExpressJS, although it's a JavaScript framework made for Node.js,
the syntax is virtually the same. You replace the dollar signs in R with dots,
and you've got the same application almost. And so essentially, one day I was trying to
write an application, I think I ended up on ExpressJS, which at the time was extremely popular.
And I don't know, I don't use it today, but the syntax clicked. The way you compose your
application with ExpressJS clicked with me, and I thought I'd try to do something like that.
Awesome. Thank you so much. All right. I've got a question for Rishard, and it is, there we go.
What types of automated tests or validation checks have you found most useful or most effective in
catching those messier edge cases issues? I'm sorry if I read that wrong. Let me put it into
the chat here. So if it's about messier edge cases that are hard to figure out, I would say
I do remember a case where I was working on an app, and we knew what features are critical.
So those need to work all the time, because otherwise the app makes no sense.
And think of an e-commerce website, like the critical path is put something in the basket,
go to checkout and buy it. So try to find that path for your app and set up an end-to-end test,
for example, with ShinyTest2. And this might uncover some edge cases you might not anticipate.
Like I do remember a case where I updated one package that was a dependency of a dependency,
so I didn't even use it directly, but the test caught it because it broke
part of this critical path. And the other is, yeah, use the deployment strategies because
that's where you'll find those unknown unknowns. Of course, like other strategies that traditional
ones also work, like ask for code review, like your teammate might figure out there's an edge case.
Or I also heard about cases where someone would take production traffic and would simulate it
again on a development version, and that way that can also be used. Or I heard about people
generating random inputs. And I think the term is monkey testing, so you can also apply that
strategy to try to find those messier edge cases. Awesome. Thank you. It's always hard.
I forget how much I appreciate having a second monitor until I'm in a hotel room on my laptop
and I'm looking at Slido and Discord and trying to see everyone's face. Dylan, there was a question
for you that was, you said you used the LLM to extract features to tell it what features to use.
Can you describe that? Do you give the LLM the images and ask it to determine which features
are most characteristic of visual differences? I'm going to put this question into the Discord too.
Then do a whole new prompt cycle using those features in your prompts?
You can do that. I don't know if it helps or not, putting the features you extract as a new prompt.
The reason I showed it, and I think it can be useful to look at, is because it
gives you a glimpse into kind of like how the model is thinking about the task.
Also, in this case, I wanted to know, can it pick up on characteristics of the flower
that we would have in the iris data set? It can to some degree, but there's so many subtleties,
like relative size, and there's really small unit differences in the size of the flowers
or proportions. It really can't pick up on those. It's like, this is a purple flower and has
short leaves and is kind of smallish. It'll focus on those things. Use the features as a
glimpse into the LLM, kind of like you would just looking at your data set and what features it has
that you're going to use to predict some data. Thank you. Awesome. All right. Gina, I have
another one that is maybe a favorite question, but not really. It's, what's the most underrated
ggplot extension? Also, part two of that question, what's the best extension you've seen for scientists?
I like that question. Hot seat, Gina, sorry. Hard questions. Yeah, I preface my talk saying
I wasn't going to talk about the universe of extension. I mean, I would like really to hear
from this ggsignif, I think, package. I think that that seems like kind of a simple idea, but
really, it like adds, it compares groups and says if there's significance between them. I think that
that looks really well done and it seems like really relevant to scientists can try to find
them. Is there another question? I think that was it. You got them both underrated and good for
scientists. I will say my vote for underrated gghighlight is so good. I love it. Go play with
it if you haven't. If you want a really easy way to be like, I want to highlight this one thing in
my ggplot, gghighlight is great. Thanks, Gina. Libby, I see there was a question from someone
who was trying to access the GitHub repos, but they can't access Discord at work. After,
we could maybe share all the GitHub repos in Slido somehow or like ask a question,
like what are the GitHub repos and then put the replies. That's a good question. Can we put them
in the Zoom chat? Because you and I can post in the Zoom chat. Oh, that's true. If we are able to
and then they should be able to see them. Let's try that. If that works, then amazing. If not,
email maybe conf at posit.co and put the subject line, this is for Libby. That can get forwarded
to me maybe and then we can help you. I'm sorry that you can't use Discord on your work computer.
That stinks. Let's see. Sorry, jumping through. It's okay. While Rachel is reading questions in
Slido, I'm going to go put the links for all the talks into the chat.
There are quite a few questions here for you, Dylan, about the LLM. So,
Dylan, do you think it's safe to use the LLM you demonstrated in our day-to-day work
or would you recommend another way of integrating LLMs that ensures better accuracy?
I guess it depends what your day-to-day work is.
I think as a programmer, it's super helpful in starting ideas or like completing code when I
know what I want but I don't want to have to search like the dplyr docs or the ggplot docs to
write code. I think that's something we can all relate to if we are writing code in R.
And I think for like this topic of classification, I think it's one that I would tread very carefully.
I think it's cool because like Elmer is extending these chat models to be able to,
you know, do data manipulation on large data sets and to replicate things like
that machine learning models that would be difficult to create can do. So, I think it
opens up a door there and I just kind of wanted to show that it opens up that door and it can
be good at it and there might be useful things we learn from it. For example, like when I compared
it to another machine learning model that's being used in production and I realized, oh,
there are some blind spots in this model. This model has some biases and the LLM actually
highlighted some of those. So, I think in that situation, it's like actually could be a huge
like benefit. So, it really depends on the use case and I think it's just something we all have
to kind of explore and find out what works. And I just say be careful, look closely, you know,
iterate and ask like the hard questions and look at your data.
Awesome, thank you. Okay, we have a question that is either for John or Kennedy depending on who
knows about this topic. It's from Mike K. Smith and it was, was Ambiorex funded via an R Consortium
ISC grant? If so, how was that process and would you recommend that to other people?
I think it was funded by an R Consortium grant. John or Kennedy, who knows more about this topic?
I'll start and I'll let Kennedy close. Essentially, I created the package,
I call it 2020-2021. There was no funding up until we've had a very small amount of funding
for Kennedy. I can't remember, late last year or something like that. I'll let Kennedy answer that.
Yeah, they gave us funding last year. Well, I'm supposed to work on it this year. We've been
working on it. So the process, it wasn't that difficult. The only difficult bit is you have to
explain why this package matters. And of course, it has to have like a wide effect on the R community.
And the second thing was like stating how you are going to achieve what you said. Like,
it's like saying, okay, so this is what I want to make or to improve in Ambiorex. And then you
have now to say, how are you going to do that? And what are the timelines? So it wasn't really
difficult per se. Can I add just a quick follow-up question,
Kennedy or John? I know you mentioned like working with the team to maybe be able to deploy
Deposit Connect. But I wasn't sure if I misheard that. I was checking out the deployment options
documentation. But I see Stephen had asked, can you deploy and host an Ambiorex app in Connect?
Yes, you can, both Connect and Workbench. It's just that we haven't, well, we are working on
the annotation. Yes. Great. Thank you.
Awesome. Okay. I had another one for Dylan. Dylan, everybody really needs to know
about the LLM stuff. One of them was, wait, we got to find it. Okay, there it is from Sivani.
Do you have any advice for testing these LLM categorizations? I'm thinking of use cases
where there are no good data sets with existing categorizations
or when our own classifications may be inconsistent.
This, I think, gets to kind of a crux of using LLMs for classification. But what I go to is I
go back to like the gold standard of like testing for classification, which is that you should be
testing on new data to see the, you know, the correct, like how the proportion of correct
classifications to the incorrect ones. And when that's not possible, I think LLMs do allow for
some flexibility, right? So we can use like uncertainty scores, looking at the, asking for
the reasoning or the features it's looking at to understand what it's thinking. But when we have a
lot of data, that's hard. So you might like sort through and just look at really all the cases
where the LLM is uncertain, you know, maybe run some stats on that to see the mean uncertainty,
the deviation, to understand like how difficult the LLM thought this task was, run that against
our own expectations, you know, review some of those difficult to classify responses.
Another technique you can use is you can use multiple LLMs as raters or different classifiers
and try it that way to see if there are any disagreements or divergences in the different
LLM models. I'd also look to see if there are existing machine learning models that are intended
for your specific data, so they're trained on data just like yours. Now those might not be
perfect either, but now you have multiple tools in your toolkit that you can start to use to converge
on what a true response might mean if you don't feel like you can go through and make that
determination for every single data point. Yeah, that's rough. Sometimes things are not mutually
exclusive either. All right, thank you so much for that question and thanks Dylan for answering.
And now we are two minutes from the top of the hour, so I will say it's time to wrap up. I will
go ahead and I did see, Martine, you had asked about the links in Discord as well. I will put
them all back in Discord. No worries. Give me a moment to do that, but I wanted to say thank you
to everybody. Thanks Rachel, thanks all of our speakers. You did such an amazing job today and I
hope that you join us for virtual trivia, which happens in half an hour everybody.
Thanks everybody. Looking forward to chatting with everyone on the Discord too, and
I'm curious to everybody here, when you're at a conference and you're learning so many new things,
how do you get started after the conference as well? How do you figure out
what to prioritize? Because I'm just learning about so many new packages and
just everything coming in, so would love to learn from you all over there too.
Yep, give Rachel all your tips. I take notes in Notion for all of the talks that I attend,
and I am looking forward to lots of note-taking tomorrow if I can keep up with it on Discord.
All right, Gina, Dylan, Richard, Kennedy, John, thank you so much. You did amazing and hopefully
we see you all at Trivia. Goodbye everybody. I'll see you in Discord. Everybody go take a break.